Predicting fluctuating demands can make operating
the supply chain very challenging.
As the customers' demands changes, the supply chain
must be able to react accordingly.
For instance, if a new clinic is added to the hospital,
then the overall demand for supplies will increase.
However, if units in the hospital shut down
for weeks or months, then the need
for these same supplies will decrease.
As a result of the changes in demand, staff can take actions
that impact inventory, whether positive or negative.
Some of these impacts can include holding inventory
to combat uncertainty.
If there is an incident that occurs with the supplier,
there may be uncertainty when an item might be available.
As a result, the logistics staff will order and hold onto
the excessive amounts of supplies
in case there could be stock outages.
There was a time when there were shortages of saline
that is used in the OR and it was difficult to obtain
from any vendors.
As a result, many facilities purchased the saline in bulk,
anticipating that vendors would not have
an adequate supply later.
This prediction came to pass
and saline was difficult to obtain when needed.
The facilities that purchased the saline in bulk in advance
were able to continue with operations.